# Community Tools Comparison #

| **Technology** | **Best for...** | **Pros** | **Cons** | **Implementation Tips** |
|:---------------|:----------------|:---------|:---------|:------------------------|
| **Email announcement group** | Sending one-way information (like course announcements) to course participants. | Easy, quick way to send out announcement emails.<br>Students can opt out of receiving email.<br>Most students are comfortable with email technology. <table><thead><th> No way to enroll all students at once; they must individually register.<br>Emails may be perceived as spam. </th><th> See <a href='CreateEmailList.md'>Announcements-only Email List</a>. </th></thead><tbody>
<tr><td> <b>Web forum using Google groups</b> </td><td> Post course announcements.<br>Post optional material (background and advanced) for students to access and discuss.<br>Students apply and display their understanding; debate with each other.<br>Students share feedback about the course.  </td><td> Students can answer each others’ questions.<br>Students can initiate their own discussions.<br>Course staff can monitor discussions. </td><td> Many people are not comfortable with posting information publicly.<br>Some students find Google Groups UI difficult to navigate. </td><td> Determine categories of posts in advance.<br>Enable the ability to mark threads as duplicates.<br>See <a href='WebForums.md'>Community Discussion</a>.</td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>Google+ page</b> </td><td> Sending one-way information (like announcements) publicly.  </td><td> Public.<br>Reaches students when they are on Google+.<br>Students can reshare posts.<br>Posts can be edited after the fact. </td><td> Google+ does not have a high adoption rate. <br> Public. </td><td>                         </td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>Blog</b>    </td><td> Post one-way course announcements. </td><td> People can choose to follow via email.<br>Public.<br>Can edit posts. </td><td> Public.  </td><td>                         </td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>Email help alias</b> </td><td> Students ask private questions of course staff.<br>Students share feedback about the course.  </td><td> Some students are hesitant to use forums; likely more comfortable with email technology. </td><td> Requires course staff to answer emails.<br>Can end up answering same questions multiple times. </td><td> If using Gmail, can set up canned responses to address FAQs.<br>Can set up an auto-responder directing people to the forum. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>Hangouts</b> </td><td> Live collaboration between students.<br>Office hours with course staff. </td><td> Live video collaboration. </td><td> New technology that not all students will be comfortable with.<br>Requires participants to have a Google+ account.<br>Limit of 10 people in a hangout at a given time. </td><td> See <a href='OnlineOfficeHours.md'>Online Office Hours</a>. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>Hangouts On Air</b> </td><td> Live office hours to address student questions. </td><td> Can broadcast to the world.<br>Can collect engagement data easily. </td><td> Limited live interaction between students and instructors.<br>New technology. </td><td> Requires Google+ account (or Google+ page) for the instructor.<br>Requires YouTube channel.<br> See <a href='OnlineOfficeHours.md'>Online Office Hours</a>. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <b>YouTube Channel</b> </td><td> Host all videos; encourage reuse and video responses. </td><td> All of your course videos are accessible at one site. </td><td>          </td><td> Necessary to have a YouTube channel if you want to do a Hangout on Air. </td></tr></tbody></table>

<table><thead><th> <a href='https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!categories/course-builder-forum/set-up-and-manage-community'>Ask questions in the forum</a> </th></thead><tbody>